# Early-reader-ecosystem

Story Development and Curation

About Curation

Curation
The word “Curation” has become one of the many overused internet buzz words and we have steadily become familiar with similar overused verbs and phrases such as filter, engage and participate. Within social media platforms, the concept of “curation” is  typically associated with the activities of those who use different platforms and tool to select and display digital content. 
Curation is not however only a term used by those on social media. George Siemens originally used the word curation when he described the activities associated with teaching on a MOOC. Curation in this context referred to the process of sorting through the vast amounts of content on the web and presenting it in a meaningful and organized way around a specific theme.  
Off the web, a curator was a role occupied by a specialist in a museum or gallery. Many curators are rightly concerned with the casual use of the term . They argue that a collected list of links or a selection of pictures does not signify a curator. For them, the term curator designates expertise and care.  
Balzar (2015) examines the etymology and history of the word “curate”. In Rome, those charged with the care of public works or minors or the mentally disabled or foreign territories held the honorific title curatores and procurates. The parish church has three different types of clergy, namely the rector, vicor and curate. The latter being the most junior of the three. He suggests that historically the curator has always been a bit of an amateur and professional curator should not be so quick to dismiss their pop culture counterparts.  
We’ve appropriated the term “curation” to describe the activities associated with the lifecycle of story. From the creation, through to its production then publication,  interpretation and wider dissemination, the storybook curator offers both the author and reader additional value by making a qualified selection of the best and most relevant content and resources within a specific topic or theme. While the curator is not responsible for creating the content or illustrations within the story themselves, the curator shepherds all involved to make sense of their particular contribution, identifies the best and most relevant content and brings it forward. The people who choose to take on this role will be known as content curators .
